## Story Geni 
- Story Geni generates new stories by transforming the meaning of prevoisuly exisiting stories by extracting words of various parts of speech and replacing these words other words of belonging to the same part of speech. 

- Written in OCAML

### How To Run This Program 
``` ocamlc -o story-geni str.cma ingester.ml extracter.ml speech_test.ml ```
- then type 
```./story-geni passage.txt ```
- or to run story geni on the default passage 
 ```./story-geni ```
 - to redirect the output on the terminal to a file
 ```./story-geni passage.txt  < output-file.txt```
  
 - Story geni will output a text file with containing the original passage and generated two stories. a user generated story and an auto generated story. 
 
### About Story Geni 
- Story Geni will generate two stories. One story is created by prompting the user to fill in all the extracted words. the second story is automatically generated by Story Geni. 
- Story Geni extracts and generates words based on a static set data set of 100,000 words loaded in upon program start up. words consist of nouns, adjectives, adverbs, and verbs. the data files have been included. 

### Limitations
- A clear limitation of Story Geni is it lacks intelligence. to make up for these lackings would require the use of NLP. note the following shortcomings
  1. When a word is extracted from a passage tenses are not taken into consideration 
  2. All words are assumed to belong to single part of speech. 
  3. The context of the sentence is not taken into consideration 
  4. The program is based on a static data set consisting of approximately 100,000 words

#### About Story Geni Implementation 
- For a given part of speech Story Geni loads in the given sets of files and combines them into list. Therefore each part of speech has its own list. From here Story Geni creates a word bank map and word id map for each part of speech. These maps are used for efficient searching of words. Then the passage which is the basis for the story is read in as a list. From here a fraction of the passages nouns, adjectives, adverbs and verbs are extracted from the passage. This is accomplished checking every 3rd word (an arbitray choice as long as is n > 2. see NOTE: below) to see if it belongs to one of the 4 parts of speech this program understands. to check if a word belongs to a particular part of speech it is checked against a the word bank assoicated with that part of speech i.e to see if it is a noun, the program checks the noun word bank. if the word is of that part of speech, the word is replaced with a marker to denote the words type of speech that was extracted. 

- When generating a story or prompting the user to finish a story Story Geni stops at each place holder in the story. if the story is auto generated Story Geni generates a random word for each place holder by generating a random number and using this value as a key for the Word ID map. the value at this key (a word of the request part of speech) is then placed into the story. (all word extraction and insertion is handled by building lists with the appporiate values) if it is a user that is finishing the story, the user is prompted to enter a value of (with a message displaying the part of speech) for each place holder in the text. 

- NOTE: the arbitray value is used to help reduce the number of  words checked and removed from the passage. if each word was removed that belong to one fo the 4 parts of speech this program recognizes, then when a tory is generated it is less likley to read like an actual story (it wont make much sense) because of story geni's lack of intelligence. to add the lacking intelleignce would require the use of NLP. when we do not check every word we preserve more of the original sentence structure and have a higher chance of the sentence being decipehrable. 
